Velho — 05/16/2019 2:38 PM
@tatasz Ok, thank you so much!
BTW, that leads me to another question, and I would really like to read several opinions and start a debate about it. I believe it's a very important question, so I'll try to make it complete. Here it goes:
Velho — 05/16/2019 2:47 PM
I'm very concerned about copyrighted fractals, and using others work as an inspiration for my own creations. I know that several important fractal artists have been stolen by opportunist and selfish people, and had to remove many valuable learning content because of that. My actual question is:
How much tweaking is needed to call it my own? And how can I respect the original artist (besides giving credit, of course), while honoring their work and maybe make them happy about my tweak?
Could you please give me examples on what to do, and also bad examples on what not to do?
This is a very important question, because I intend to start selling my fractals, and I don't have the money to be sued, nor the time. And I DEFINITELY don't want to offend, not even a little bit, all the other fractal artists from where I learned, and will continue to learn for the future.
P.S.: Sorry for the wall of text, but I really think that this is an important question, and probably one of the major problems in fractal art.
Yamen — 05/16/2019 2:55 PM
It's good that you're thinking of these things. I've been through a bunch of this, just a couple months ahead of you, so here's my insight as a newbie in the scene.

I'm not a lawyer, and eventually you will need to at least know one real one if you're doing business. But as general advice, copyright doesn't hold up well as a concept in software, and even more so in generative art. You need to pay careful attention to licenses for all the software you use, as well as any licenses attached to any scripts, add-ons, textures, or other elements of your process. But to broadly summarize it: You own the resulting render, and copyright is granted to fixed expressions of art. 
Get familiar with the various Creative Commons licenses, and other free licenses, as a lot of fractal stuff is distributed under these. Some require attribution, some don't, some prohibit commercial use, some are fine with it. If you want to make money and be safe, it is your responsibility to track all of these licenses. 
bezo97 | Zotya — 05/16/2019 3:04 PM
@Velho i think if you add your own twists to the artwork after finishing the tutorial you're good to go. Silvia was upset because everyone just completed the tutorial and didn't take it further.. each looked the same and that's not the point:D
Yamen — 05/16/2019 3:13 PM
But that's all technical. On a more artistic approach, the question of when it becomes "your" art is ultimately going to be subjective. At the bare minimum, you absolutely must contribute something to the art before you can call it yours. What that contribution is, how significant it is, all of that is going to be part of what defines your artistic style. I like to use hypotheticals and analogies, so bear with me.

There could be someone who's primary focus in fractal art is refining color pallets. As an artist, this person's passion is exploring color, and they use fractal geometry as a vehicle. This artist might not spend much time "twisting triangles", and prefer to generate interesting bases quickly using community scripts. Putting aside crediting other people, you would agree that there's some artistic merit in learning about color palletes, and that this artist is contributing artistically.

Another artist might be much more into the math, and how illustrating clever relationships produce aesthetically pleasing results. This artist is not inventing new math (well, OK, I think sometimes the wizards here DO, but that's out of scope), they are combining existing math in cool ways. You can't copyright math itself, it's logically derived. Nonetheless, you would agree there is artistic merit to exploring math, and that this artist is contributing artistically.
When I first envisioned "making fractal art", it was engineering weird noises to play through Winamp to capture Milkdrop screenshots. I barely knew what a flame fractal was, I certainly had no understanding of how they were built, but I felt like I was artistically contributing by generating intentional source audio. This was a good starting point for me, but I don't feel comfortable posting any of those screencaptures as "my" art. Even though my thumbprint was on it, I was barely in control of any of it and I couldn't express my intent any more than "That looks cool, take a screenshot".
Yamen — 05/16/2019 3:25 PM
Once I started learning the fractal programs, one of the allures was all the cool presets, params, and scripts people had created, and the deliciously chaotic Randomize buttons. This was a step up in artistic control, while I was still  doing a lot of "random surfing", I began learning where I could lock down value I liked, and began the first steps in defining a personal artistic style. My influence evolved from being a curator to a designer. Instead of simply picking the things I liked, I was turning a few dials and knobs with pure intent. The earliest art still on my site is from this period, so I guess this is where I've drawn the line for myself. I'm working on a redesign now and I may shed a few particularly derivative pieces. As I get better, it's easier to see where I stayed too "close to stock" in retrospect.
Since then though, I've found that the more aspects I take under my control, the more earnest I feel about the art, and the prouder I am with the results. About a month and a half ago, I set a personal challenge to make something cool without clicking Random at all. This taught me so much about the work I was "skipping over", and showed me all the areas I have left to grow as an artist in. I'm getting pretty comfortable working with transforms and afflines, but I have a lot to learn about structure, tiling, coloring. I'm comfortable seeing that as room to grow while still considering myself as an artist contributing artistically.
Robotnik (GMT+1) — 05/16/2019 3:31 PM
Ping me after this convo, i have an off topic question for yall ^^
Yamen — 05/16/2019 3:34 PM
Now for the Hard Truth:
Making good art, by itself, is not enough to make money, especially online. While the psychedelia market is booming right now, there's not a lot of money in "fractal art" by itself. The most popular fractal artists aren't popular simply on the merit of their immense talent, it takes a lot of work marketing, networking, advertising, and communicating to build a following. Content generation is a saturated market across the board, and everyone is really worn down by ad fatigue.
Velho — 05/16/2019 3:37 PM
@bezo97 | Zotya But... how much tweaking is it needed, in the end result? I mean, sometimes I'm experimenting with parameters from others, change just one value, and in 5 seconds the fractal is completely unrecognizable from the original, yet I don't consider it "my own" yet, because I feel the need to, at least, spend a couple of hours with it. Some other times, I come up with something that I believe it's very different, and months later I discover that I did nothing original, and it looked like a copy of someone else, when it wasn't. Abstract fractals don't have this problem, but geometric fractals do, I believe.
Yamen — 05/16/2019 3:40 PM
I have, if I counted, probably about 500 or so Print on Demand products configured with fractal art on various platforms like DA, Redbubble, Society6 and Threadless. I add new art daily, I promote on FB and Instagram and Twitter, I've bought limited budget ads, and I've been doing so since October of last year. 

I have exactly $0 in organic sales (as in, not to friends and family).
Now to be clear, I'm hella new to all of this, I couldn't walk you through an effective marketing strategy if I wanted to.
Robotnik (GMT+1) — 05/16/2019 3:41 PM
there go my hopes for my youtube venture lol
Yamen — 05/16/2019 3:42 PM
Don't give up hope, this is where fractal art gets the COOLEST.
Take the tools you have and build on them to make something new and exciting. That's like the core of being a human, in my opinion, but it's a clear driving force in the fractal community.
Our challenge, individually and collectively, is finding ways to share what's cool about fractal art with more people. As we do so, we learn, we grow, and we contribute to what is known.
Uploading videos to Youtube isn't enough to be a popular Youtuber, but that doesn't mean you can't find success doing it!
Robotnik (GMT+1) — 05/16/2019 3:45 PM
it's not to be popular
i'm trying to integrate fractals as a bas for visuals for djs and events, timing them dynamically to audio imput
youtube is to showcase
the songs i use get claimed anyway
@Yamen https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZKGjm78QI6M
YouTube
Fractality
Turn Off The Lights
Image
Yamen — 05/16/2019 3:48 PM
VJing is a whole scene in, and it's connected to the fractal scene in a lot of ways. Strictly speaking, whether or not you're trying to be popular doesn't matter to the law. Whether you're collecting money does.
But, much like the DJing scene, it's very, very unlikely that someone is going to nitpick your visualizations if you aren't straight up stealing them.
Velho — 05/16/2019 3:49 PM
@Yamen Years ago I had a teacher that made macro photography as a hobby. He put his photos in some stock site, and he earned good money with it (enough to buy new expensive lenses and cameras), because macros were practically non existent. My best tip: find a niche and explore it.
Yamen — 05/16/2019 3:50 PM
That niche has long since flooded open, when it comes to "fractal art"
However, @mfeemster  mentioned sites that let you sell VJ loops, which is a pretty similar concept. There's lots of room for that stuff in IFS, Pixel Shaders, and Rendering, if you get into the tech end of things. 
Velho — 05/16/2019 3:51 PM
@Robotnik (GMT+1)  I haven't seen the whole video, but what I saw were not fractals, but only symmetry and kaleidoscope visuals.
Robotnik (GMT+1) — 05/16/2019 3:52 PM
The base is a fractal animation it's the spiral you see halfway
but im not liscenced so i worked around low res with kaleidoscopes
Yamen — 05/16/2019 3:54 PM
I'd be careful there. If you're doing it "commercially', that might not be a sufficient workaround.
Velho — 05/16/2019 3:57 PM
The HipHop industry and success was based by "stealing" samples from others. Then, a new law was made, making it impossible (or highly expensive) to use materials from others. But, in the end, Everything is A Remix:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nJPERZDfyWc
(If you have't seen it yet, I highly recommend it)
YouTube
Kirby Ferguson
Everything is a Remix Remastered (2015 HD)
Image
Zueuk — 05/16/2019 4:07 PM
lol @ hiphop and such, thinking they're "everything"
Velho — 05/16/2019 4:09 PM
That being said, I was always HUGELY afraid of trying to sell my fractals, because I don't want to have problems with it, nor dishonor my teachers and inspirators. Some of my works were based on others (unfortunately, I was just creating for the fun of it, and I didn't keep track of were the base came from, and I can't give credit where credit is due. I've learned my lesson, now, of course). Although I made efforts to tweak it to the point that it's (maybe) legally considered my own work, I still have some questions about this. I really want to do it right, and prevent any problem that might happen... 
Zueuk — 05/16/2019 4:10 PM
i am under impression that modern ppl see so many recycled content that now they believe everything is recycled
so it's ok to reuse other people's stuff right?
clearly everybody does that
Robotnik (GMT+1) — 05/16/2019 4:11 PM
@Yamen It's practice before i feel confident enough to justify buying chaotica's liscence 
Zueuk — 05/16/2019 4:11 PM
when is the last time you've seen an original movie :slow:
Velho — 05/16/2019 4:13 PM
@Zueuk It's not about being OK. That's a natural process of learning, and creating original work. Anything you might thing it's original, it never actually is. We all are influenced by other things, people, art, stuff, etc. What is not OK is plagiarism.
bezo97 | Zotya — 05/16/2019 4:18 PM
@Velho if youre not sure about it yourself, you can ask the tutorial creator maybe?:D dont sweat on it
Yamen — 05/16/2019 4:21 PM
I guess there's an alternative approach here. Unless you are copying JPEGs directly, no one is realistically going to sue you for a fractal you rendered yourself.
bezo97 | Zotya — 05/16/2019 4:22 PM
people will always reach out first,  yeah
Velho — 05/16/2019 4:26 PM
Some posts ago I asked for some bad examples. Since no one shared, I'll share my first example, with my first practical question.
This
https://www.deviantart.com/zy0rg/art/Polled-flamepack-v2-362684334
was used here:
https://www.deviantart.com/technochroma/art/Morpho-Flowers-506312316
and here:
https://www.deviantart.com/technochroma/art/Path-of-the-Fae-506519552
and also here:
https://www.deviantart.com/technochroma/art/The-Aeon-s-Footprint-533677214
Do you consider these 3 derivatives plagiarism, or are they actually fair tweaks that belong to the artist that tweaked the original?
@zy0rg has no license on these, and asks for nothing except to "Let me know if you use these params somewhere.", not even asking for credit!
I mean, I do think that this is somewhat close to plagiarism, but I'm not sure if it really is in the world of Fractal Art. It's not uncommon to see similar patterns in Fractal art. For example: a sierpinski triangle will always be a sierpinski triangle! The moment you change it to the point that it'll be unrecognizable, it'll stop being a sierpinski triangle.
I'm making a tweak of these params, and already spent several days studying and tweaking this a lot, but the flower field is still there. I think that anyone (even non fractal artists) can notice where it came from, if they know the source.
Can I sell a tweak similar to one of those examples, even if I'm crediting @zy0rg for the original base? 
DeviantArt
zy0rg
Polled flamepack v2
The flamepack containing 5 my best fractals (selected by a poll): "The Simple One" requires unreleased plugin hypershift. "Floria" and "Long Forgotten" requires unreleased plugin post_smartshape. "...
Polled flamepack v2
DeviantArt
technochroma
Morpho Flowers
An Apophysis fractal. Accomplished through the aid of zy0rg's . Feel free to zoom in for all the awesome details! This was featured as the cover art for North Shore Community College Spar...
Morpho Flowers
DeviantArt
technochroma
Path of the Fae
Accomplished through the aid of zy0rg's. An Apophysis fractal. ©2016 katdesignstudio. All Rights Reserved.
Path of the Fae
DeviantArt
technochroma
The Aeon's Footprint
Accomplished through the aid of zy0rg's "Polled Param Pack." Free for download and the params are open for tweaking. To this day Believers in the Sacred say That wherever grows a circle of flo...
The Aeon's Footprint
bezo97 | Zotya — 05/16/2019 4:37 PM
it's not plagarism at all. @technochroma used to same technique but the outcomes are not same: she added her own taste of colors and composition.
@Velho also if you notice:D the first two by @technochroma she experimented with 3 petal flowers, nice
technochroma — 05/16/2019 4:41 PM
Yeah I think there must have been like 10 separate instances of either poincare or another transform making the number of petals so it was going through each transform that had it and changing the numbers appropriately to reveal only 3 petals. Aside from coloring and overall composition/use of camera
Essentially what you have there as the signature "look" is indeed a kind of hypertiled flower look
Velho — 05/16/2019 4:51 PM
@bezo97 | Zotya Let me be clear: I'm not saying that it is plagiarism. I'm just saying that a person that doesn't know about this at all may consider this plagiarism, because there are familiar patterns.
@technochroma I'm sorry, I just now realized that all those examples are from you, when I thought they were from 3 different artists 😳 I hope you don't feel offended by what I wrote before, but if you did, I present my humble excuses, as that was not my intention at all. My intention is to have a debate about Fractal Art derivatives, honor the original artist, and avoiding copyright infringements in the process.. I really love what you did with it, by the way, and it has been a true inspiration while I've been studying it. I'm really glad you shared it and let me have the opportunity to study it and learn from it!
bezo97 | Zotya — 05/16/2019 4:55 PM
@Velho hmm:D you cannot know exactly what they'll call plagarism. As long as you yourself feel it's yours:D then go ahead. If you're really concerned you can just message them to say 😄
technochroma — 05/16/2019 4:56 PM
@Velho No sweat at all my friend, it wouldn't be an open community unless we had the ability to question and learn. I might even be able to provide params if they are a) not already in the description b) findable...I have several archives of params :3
It's good that you're learning, and re-learning, I don't think anyone can properly keep everything they learn about fractals over the years in a retrievable area of their brain all at once XD if you browse through my gallery you will see for example several changes of style
technochroma — 05/16/2019 5:07 PM
Hmm can't seem to find those params in question though...but I will keep an eye out for them